hi Rosie friends it's Julie and today
I'm going to answer a question that was
actually asked by one of you and that is
how do you know if your skin care
routine is actually working this was
asked by Shannon e on facebook and when
I actually put out a post asking is
there anything that I should be talking
about in my upcoming videos I was making
a list of different topics that I wanted
to cover so I thought well you guys
would be a really good resource for
wanting to know what you want to see so
um thank you very much Hannon for the
question and so I'm going to try and
answer that the best of my abilities
today and I'm also going to announce the
winner of the giant Celtic complexion
giveaway that was just held I'm super
excited about that I got an email from
the company this morning saying who the
winner was and they've allowed me to
announce it I will hopefully have
already contacted you by this point
winner but um if I have into them you
will get you will hear from me very very
shortly so the winner is Megan highlands
congratulations i hope i'm pronouncing
your name properly but you are the
winner of the entire Celtic complexion
giveaway that i think is 385 dollars
worth of products super amazing giveaway
incredible products I'm very jealous of
you right now because I've never tried
the Celtic fuel and that is only one of
the three different products that you're
winning so yep i will have contacted you
already so that you can give your
mailing address to Celtic complexion so
they can send that it right away and
congratulations i'm so excited for you i
hope you'll let me know if you love the
product because i'm very very very
curious but yeah so moving on to this
video Thank You Shannon II for your
question and for answering my question
on facebook what you'd like to hear more
about and that's how to know if your
skin care routine is working I did
actually I interviewed a dermatologist
last year at some point i'll put a link
to that it's it on my blog so i'll put a
link to that in the description below
but I interviewed dermatologist asking
that exact same question and I got some
really good insight so I'm going to
combine
what I learned from him with what I've
learned kind of overtime myself over the
last while to see if I can come up with
a helpful answer for you I think you
know if your skincare routine is
actually working for you is actually I
would break that down into a number of
different parts because for one thing a
skincare routine is my apple of a lot of
different things normally it's not just
one product at several but there are
also different kinds of reactions and
outcomes and things that you're going to
be looking for so it's not really a one
to answer like more of a multi-step kind
of thing to start I think that going
into understanding whether or not your
routine is working the first thing that
you should do is ignore any claims on
the product that say something
miraculous or wonderful or just
overblown claims that basically say that
you know if you apply this to your face
you will have a clear complexion in
three days and all your problems are
solved and you know you'll be a
millionaire with a boat yeah so a lot of
products right all these really
overblown things on them I talent try to
take those really lightly I try not to
take them to too seriously pay attention
to what the claims are but I try not to
think oh well if I use that than in
three days my skin will be perfect
because that's ridiculous and nothing is
going to make my skin perfect like that
at least nothing that's been discovered
so far is going to do that kind of thing
so try to just set the claims aside and
have a more realistic expectation for
what your skincare can actually do for
you even the absolute best skincare
products that I've tried so far nothing
has actually cleared out my rosacea
perfectly because I have some permanent
redness so that's just going to be there
even with my light therapy which is just
one of the best things that I've ever
tried ever even then I still have some
redness left behind and I do have to
cover that with makeup it is still
fading slowly in case you want to know
how the another update a few months
later from my green light therapy
experiment I it is still fading but it's
a very slow process and I don't know how
much more it'll fade I don't know if
this is the extent or if it'll keep
fading again over the next month or so
so you have trying to have realistic
expectations to start and then start
paying attention to some
very specific things when it comes to
the products that you're trying out if
you want to understand if they're
working or not kind of on the same vein
don't try and look for a miracle product
or think that one ingredient is going to
be the be-all and end-all for your skin
care that's not usually the case i'm
currently trying two different things
one on the right side of my face on one
on the left side of my face and on the
left side of my face I'm trying rose
water and then choke cherry oil and
right now both been absolutely wonderful
some of the best skincare I've ever
tried and it's two ingredients but I
would still not say that those are
miracle ingredients everybody should go
out and buy them and they're going to
solve all your problems I still have
redness I still you know flush from
things and all that kind of stuff it's
just that they're they're great for me
and I love that now even the best
products they're not going to give you a
miracle they're just going to give you a
better experience than others and some
of those experiences are very very very
good and the next thing that I would
recommend is to choose your root your
skin care routine very carefully and pay
a lot attention to what you're choosing
because you're going to want to be doing
this over time and you're going to need
to be very consistent with it so pay
attention to the ingredients make sure
that you're known triggers aren't in
there make sure that it's something
you'll be able to afford to keep up over
time so that you can really give it a
legitimate test and make sure that it's
something you might give it a smell to
make sure it's a scent if its fragrance
or not it's a scent that you can
tolerate and you're going to be able to
stick to and then make sure that it's a
routine that doesn't take too much time
or you don't know yourself and know what
you will or will not keep up with
because if you've all if you're only
willing to try it a few times even if it
is the best product you've ever tried if
it's too much for you then it's not
going to help you because you're not
going to use it and as an extension of
what I was just saying make sure that
you do once you do choose your routine
stick to it consistently if you aren't
super consistent with your skincare
using it at the same time the same
number of times every single day then
you're not giving it a fair shot if you
use it you know if it's a cleanser for
example and you use it some days just
once a day and sometimes three times a
day or some say it's not at all you use
something else then there's no way for
you to know really if it's the best
cleanser for you because you're not
really giving it a consistent shot so
consistency is super
important and finally and I think this
is the thing that was confirmed the most
in my interview with the dermatologist
and that is that you need to be patient
and wait for results and this is the
part that I like the least i would love
to have instant results so that i can
apply a product to my face and know what
it's going to do for me but the response
that my skin has on the first day a week
later a month later they're all
different so my skin could actually have
a flare-up from something the first few
times that i use it and then it can
almost get used to it and then over time
just build and build and build and get
better and better results on the
opposite end of the scale I could try
something for the first week and my skin
tolerates it beautifully and I think
that it's the best thing ever and then
slowly my skin starts to kind of reject
it and it gets redder and redder and
redder over time and it just becomes
problematic so according to the
dermatologist I talked to give it at
least three months to really know if
something is working or not that is
something that I have stuck by because
I've noticed that over time my skin's
reaction to it does change and by the
three-month point I've kind of got a
grasp of what my skin is going to do
with a certain product so as much as I
would love to say two weeks or something
like that it's probably three months
that you're going to want to wait before
you can decide even if it's working or
not you know if you like it or not there
are some products that you're going to
know a little faster than others for
example a cleanser you'll know pretty
much off the bat whether or not it's
going to take off makeup whether or not
it's going to take off all the other
products that you put on your face
you'll know certain things you'll also
know whether or not you like the smell
you'll know whether or not it kind of
irritates your skin I find with a
cleanser if it irritates my skin right
at the beginning I generally won't give
it time to kind of prove itself over
time if I try a cleanser I wash my face
and it flares up like crazy and it feels
burning a tight and horrible I generally
won't give it maybe I'll try it one more
time just to give it a shot other than
that no I'm not interested cleansers
usually first impressions matter what's
clean
when you use a cleanser in terms of if
when you have rosacea prone skin like me
you're going to look for something
creamy or something that isn't foaming
at least and look for something that
will wash away excess oils and dirt and
makeup and things like that but not
something that's going to leave your
skin feeling strip you should never have
that squeaky clean feeling on your skin
when you have rosacea you're looking
more for a smooth silky sort of feel
something a little freshened up and
something where you can tell it
basically all the excess stuff has been
removed but you need that protect you
don't want all the skin oils removed you
need a protective layer left behind
because that's very very very important
to your skin health if you are stripping
your skin you are basically setting
yourself up for more problems if you use
an exfoliant and not all of us can I
personally can there's one but I can use
it took me a long time to find its
Celtic complexion I don't know where it
is right now it's around here somewhere
but i have a Celtic complexion one here
I don't use it much in the winter but I
do use it weekly in the summertime and
if you use a an exfoliant you can
usually tell after the first time what
your skin's reaction to it is as long as
you feed it properly remember that the
point to exfoliating isn't actually like
it's not like trying to sand your face
or something if you have you know patchy
areas that are dry don't try and kind of
scrub that off you're not trying to
scrub your face you're giving it a very
very gentle like massage and then you're
just going to risk that away and over
time when you consistently use it's a
weekly it will make a really nice
difference so you're not looking for
every all of the problems to be cured
with your exfoliant after one time so
because of that you can get a very good
first impression from your exfoliant as
in how much did it bug my skin or did it
bug my skin the one I use from Celtic
complexion I use it super gently so over
time it does actually keep my skin from
getting you know buildups of dry skin
and things like that but it also does I
can feel that there's a moisture light
layer left me
even after I wash it it feels
moisturized from using it so that's
something like I'm very important about
it so you don't again with an exfoliant
you don't want your skin to be scrubbed
or stripped or anything like that it
should be a very very gentle experience
and your skin should not be just
radiating red mist a moisturizer and
treatment product and things like that
that's where things get a little bit
more complicated in my experience that's
where you're really going to want to be
patient right off the bat there are
things that you can look for in a
moisturizer for example how quickly did
it absorb a few hours later did your
skin get super dry so it really didn't
last does it leave your skin feeling
really greasy on top not just like a
little bit of healthy skin oil or
something like that but is it you know
could you does it feel like you've
buttered your face and then you know has
your skin reacted well to it as it
tolerated it or did it you know flare up
and get itchy or dryer reactive in some
way and if he and dry and reactive isn't
always an indicator of a problem because
your skin may become accustomed to it
over time but um it can sometimes show
you okay this is you my skin doesn't
like this let's just back off with
treatments especially but also with
moisturizers I find that that's
something you need to keep applying and
keep trying and sort of monitor it and
kind of get that really super close up
in the mirror and have a look and things
over time does it you know be I get dry
patches in the winter that come along
here and stuff that has it been as using
the moisturizer gradually reduced that
you know has has the redness been made
worse not necessarily better because I
moisturizer or even a treatment it can't
do that right away even prescriptions
they won't do that right away the
prescriptions that I've been on have
said that I'm going to need to wait a
minimum of eight weeks before I see any
benefits at all that's where it kind of
kicks in and starts going so if a
prescription drug is going to take eight
weeks to show any signs of working at
all then you're going to want to give
you know a moisturizer or an
over-the-counter treatment of some kind
at least that much time at least that
much of a shot so basically trying
things like moisturizers and skin oils
and treatment products and things like
that are the most frustrating things and
they're the hardest ones to know whether
or not they're working so if you are
going to try a new one
give yourself at least three months you
know eight weeks so two months to see if
it's actually going to do anything at
all so your skin can adapt to it and
stuff and then after that you've got
another month to actually find out okay
now that it's working how much is it
working I find that that's the same
whether you're working with light
therapy you've seen me take a lot of
time with that whether you're working
with some sort of cream or gel or
something like that I'm testing out this
provent product right now on this side
of my face I'm trying to skin oil and
rosewater on this side of my face I'm a
true guinea pig right now but I have to
wait three months before I mean I find
actually both of them are great right
now but like you know with the program
for example i've been using that a
really short time so i really don't know
what it will do for me over time so all
I can do is wait and give myself three
months so give yourself time I know
that's not all that specific and I know
that the answer you're looking for is
probably a little bit more like oh well
you know a miracle have happened that's
that's how you know if it's working
everything's great but it's not really
that simple it's more looking for
different specifics to find out you know
whether or not your skin has accepted
something or whether it's actually
improving your skin so I hope this has
been super helpful to you I know this
was just kind of been a talking head
need babbling to you through the camera
but I really feel that Shannon was on to
something and that that is a really
important topic that a lot of a think
about but we and we kind of wonder
something's working but we don't really
know how to how to approach it so but
that would be my take on it kind of
based on what the dermatologist told me
combined with my own experiences we hope
you like this video I hope you found it
informative if you have extra tips for
billing when a skincare routine is
actually working I hope you'll share
them in the comments below I know that I
haven't covered everything I'm not a
skin care expert and I'm not a doctor
I'm just based on basing this on my own
personal experience so I would love it
if you would share your own experiences
or your own tips as well because we can
all benefit I can benefit from what you
know and we can all benefit from what
each other know if you did like this
video and you like topics like this I
hope you'll give this
big thumbs up if you want me to cover a
certain topic in a future video I hope
you'll share that in the comments below
as well as you can see I do pay
attention because I want to talk about
topics that you want to hear about if
you do want to see more videos like this
I make new ones every Thursday and
someday so I hope you'll subscribe to my
channel and other than that I will see
you next time
[Music]